
I chose this program to use in my portfolio because I thought that it strongly demonstrated the relationship that the TLB Cache had with physical memory. This program also demonstrates understanding of caching as the TLB functions as a sort of cache. I enjoyed the critical thinking and problem solving involved in coming up with a way to represent each page table and data structure used in this program. I also think that the way that the overall program functions in translating a logical address to a physical one is an example of problem solving. I think that this program in my portfolio best demonstrates the relationship between various levels in a computer system as we are dealing with reading from one memory location to another, and also updating the TLB table in the way a cache is updated.

I really enjoy working with bitwise operations and solving low level problems with high level thinking. I also thought that this program would do well in my portfolio because it demonstrates my ability to program in C. I think that learning to program in C and also different assembly languages really solidified my perspectives of everything that is happening when writing code in a higher level language like Java. I think it is important to understand exactly how system calls work and when they occur. 

This memory manager program works by reading in a list of logical addresses looping from a text file. Each of the logical addresses read in 32-bit integers. First, the logical address is masked by doing a bitwise and with 0xFFFF, because 0xFFFF has sixteen 1’s, and our physical address is contained in the 16 least significant bits of our 32 bit address. Now we only have the sixteen lowest bits, we right shift by 8 to get the top 8 bits of our address for the page number. All that’s left to determine now is the offset, which is obtained by taking the low order 8 bits we are left with after anding the 32 bit logical address with 0xFF, which in binary has 8 ones. 

In the paging section of the code, I read a page into my physical memory, and I check my TLB page table for the corresponding page number, and if it’s a TLB Hit, all left to do is find the corresponding frame in the TLB frame table. If it was a miss, then the TLB has to be updated with a corresponding page number and an arbitrary page frame value, which is just a counter that was incremented each time the TLB was written to. If there is a TLB miss, the first step after updating the TLB, was to check my page table. My page table was to be of size 256, and for my page table, I initialized an array with 256 -1’s. If my page table had a -1 at the index of the page number I was looking for, I would then be able to easily determine if it is a page miss! And this is also the time that I increase my page fault counter and page number. If it was a hit, I simply had to index my page table with the corresponding page number, to get the relevant frame value. After all of this above code finished executing, there is no question whether the 2d array representing physical memory contained the corresponding value for the page that was desired. All that was left to do was to index the physical memory with the page, and also the corresponding offset.
